# ETF Steering Group (ETF SG) - 15th meeting

## Logistics

Location: Webex

Date/Time: 03/09/2019, 10:00-11:30

## Attendance

- SG members:
  - JRC: Michael Lutz (main), Marco Minghini
  - ii: Clemens Portele (main), Jon Herrmann

- Observers:
  - Guadaltel: Carlos Palma

## Minutes of previous meeting and open actions

[Minutes by JRC](https://github.com/etf-validator/governance/blob/master/Meetings/SG/20190718.md) accepted and merged.

- All open actions are on the agenda today, except:
- [ ] The clean-up problem mentioned under AOB is still under investigation at JRC. Some files are not purged after the time period, the cause is unclear. A temporary bug fix is a cron script on the system level.

## Status of EIPs in draft (for updates)

- [#77](https://github.com/etf-validator/governance/issues/77): 
  - No change since last meeting, i.e., the problem will be addressed in September/October and the plan is to use Groovy as scripting language.

## Status of EIPs in release planning

- [32](https://github.com/etf-validator/governance/issues/32)
  - Only limited feedback from the community. JRC will add tooltips as proposed for testing by the community in the staging instance.

## Status of PRs for bug fixes

- [189](https://github.com/etf-validator/etf-webapp/pull/189):
  - [ ] Contractors to add automatic tests using Nightwatch, then inform the TC.
  
- [193](https://github.com/etf-validator/etf-webapp/pull/193): 
  - [ ] The PR should be ready, the TC will review / merge the PR.
  
- [203](https://github.com/etf-validator/etf-webapp/pull/203): 
  - [ ] Contractors to add comments to the Codacy issues why these should be acceptable. Then inform the TC and the PR will be reviewed.
  
- [196](https://github.com/etf-validator/etf-webapp/pull/196):
  - [ ] Contractors to provide a bugfix in a new PR.
  
## Plan for automated tests for the next releases of ETS/ETF

- Nothing to discuss.

## AOB

- Feedback from FOSS4G 2019: Good attendance, most in the audience were familiar with the validator. Marco received several specific questions. The [video of the talk is online](https://media.ccc.de/v/bucharest-435-inspire-reference-validator-status-and-next-steps). 

- Validator workshop at the JRC: Good expression of interest for both days (users and developers).

- Comments to ISO 19105: Both JRC and ii have submitted comments, nothing major. Clemens is part of the project team and will follow the comment resolution.

- Governance of the webapp: In the project with the German mapping agencies ii is making some changes to the webapp that are specific for that community and not necessarily relevant for everyone. Some of the INSPIRE EIPs are also related to UI improvements. At the same time, JRC is also discussing how to meet the requirements for Commission websites, which likely will require a new development. One option could be to keep a simple webapp as part of ETF, but expect that most deployments will build a custom web application using the Web API. We could then encourage documenting the technical approaches to such ETF web applications. Continue the discussion at the next meetings.

- Somewhat related to previous item: The INSPIRE Validator went down during the FOSS4G presentation due to very heavy load with API requests. We currently only protect the system by limiting the number of parallel test runs, but with increased API use protecting the API is becoming important, too. The Commission has an API gateway that JRC will look at. It should also be possible to include such measures in the internal ETF API gateway. Monitoring API usage also shows that clients are often requesting too much information for what they need.
Having client libraries for reuse that implement typical workflows should simplify use of the API and reduce the load on the API. ii is expecting to implement such a client in Java later this year.

- Next meetings: 08/10/2019, 10:00-11:30; 12/11/2019, 10:00-11:30; 17/12/2019, 10:00-11:30.
  - [ ] JRC to share Webex invitations
