# ETF Steering Group (ETF SG) - 18th meeting

## Logistics

Location: Webex

Date/Time: 17/12/2019, 10:00-11:30

## Attendance

- SG members:
  - JRC: Michael Lutz (main), Marco Minghini
  - ii: Clemens Portele (main), Jon Herrmann
- Observers:
  - Guadaltel: Carlos Palma

## Minutes of previous meeting and open actions

- [Minutes by ii](https://github.com/etf-validator/governance/blob/master/Meetings/SG/20191112.md) accepted and merged.
- All open actions are on the agenda today.

## Cleanup issue on the JRC Validator instance

- The JRC instance crashed again due to to some TestRuns stucked which did not allow the TestRuns queued to be executed (see the new input added in [WebApp #208](https://github.com/etf-validator/etf-webapp/issues/208)), but it was not possible to identify the problematic TestRun. A patch has been put in place to re-run the instance without losing the test reports.
- The instance has 4 cores: these could be increased but it is likely that the number of cores is not the cause of the problem.
- ii did not find anything significant in the log files provided by the Contractors.
- [ ] Contractors to reproduce the flow that led to the crash, by using the test runs and test data.

## CRS issue on GML validation

- Contractors confirmed that they can fix the bug in the deegree library.
- JRC approached the deegree community (see [this comment](https://github.com/deegree/deegree3/issues/886#issuecomment-559419154) to the issue in the deegree helpdesk), but no answer was provided.
- [x] JRC to contact deegree PSC members (Jens Fitzke and Thorsten Friebe) by e-mail.

## Status of EIPs in draft (for updates)

- [#76](https://github.com/etf-validator/governance/issues/76): 
  - Contractors integrated the TestDriver with the in-memory option enabled and added it to the webapp; it was loaded correctly but the TestRun only lasted for some seconds and failed. This exception comes from BaseX.
  - [ ] Contractors to use a debugger to understand where the problem is (there might be many other actions that are not allowed in the in-memory mode).

- [#77](https://github.com/etf-validator/governance/issues/77): 
  - This draft EIP is expected to be addressed in 2020: ii plans to have a discussion in Jan-Feb, followed by a development in spring.
  - It is agreed to keep this topic for discussion/updates in the next meetings.

- Other EIPs:
  - There are many EIPs open (some still in draft stage and some obsolete) which have not been discussed in the last months.
  - During the next meeting, it might be good to have a general overview of the open EIPs to see whether some of them have a low priority and can be deleted.
  - [ ] JRC/ii to include this as a topic for the next meeting.

## Governance of the webapp

- JRC is slowly progressing with the definition of the new UI for the INSPIRE Validator, but there is not yet a clearly defined timeline.
- The user interface developed by ii for the German mapping agencies is expected to be published and tested within the first half of 2020.
- It is agreed again that project-specific UIs should be released separately, since they do not really belong to the ETF.

## API Clients

- There is no way to know how users/developers are accessing the ETF API.
- For the INSPIRE community, an API client in Java (like the one that ii is currently developing) might be useful, to allow reuse by e.g. GeoNetwork and Hale.
- Within INSPIRE, the use of the ETF API can be promoted by restricting the access to the user interface. This will need to be addressed within the more general discussion on the future funding and sutainability of the INSPIRE tools.
- The API Gateway of the European Commission is also worth to be checked by the JRC.
- It is agreed to keep this as a topic for discussion in the next SG meetings.

## Status of PRs for bug fixes

No changes from the previous meeting:

- [189](https://github.com/etf-validator/etf-webapp/pull/189):
  - [ ] Contractors to add automatic tests using Nightwatch, then inform the TC.
  
- [203](https://github.com/etf-validator/etf-webapp/pull/203): 
  - [ ] Contractors to add comments to the Codacy issues why these should be acceptable (e.g. through in-line comments so that a notification is sent to the TC), then the TC will review the PR.
  
- [206](https://github.com/etf-validator/etf-webapp/pull/206):
  - [ ] Contractors to provide a bugfix for [the issue](https://github.com/etf-validator/etf-webapp/issues/209) in a new PR.
  
## Plan for automated tests for the next releases of ETF

- It is agreed that this is something we should focus on in 2020.
- In the next months ii will evaluate the opportunity to involve the AdV in providing reference ETSs/data/test results. JRC is also planning to involve Member States: a release planning strategy for the INSPIRE Validator is under preparation and more details on this will be available in Jan 2020.
 
## AOB

- List of existing ETF instances:
  - JRC asked the INSPIRE community and got some replies from ESRI US, The Netherlands by Geonovum, Federal state Baden-Württemberg (BW) in Germany, BKG in Germany (see [here](https://github.com/inspire-eu-validation/community/issues/162)). 
  - The main question is whether there is some value in maintaining a list of known ETF instances (public or private), either on the ETF website or the ETF GitHub repository, given that such list can quickly become out-dated and that there might be many more instances than those listed.
  - In this regard, [a proposal for a session on the reuse of the INSPIRE Validator](https://inspire.ec.europa.eu/forum/discussion/view/264016/proposal-for-a-sessionworkshop-on-the-inspire-conference-in-dubrovnik-2020) at the INSPIRE 2020 Conference was put forward in the INSPIRE Community Forum.
  - This question can be kept open for discussion in the next meetings.

- Next release of the ETF:
  - An [issue](https://github.com/etf-validator/governance/issues/85) was opened, asking when the next release of the ETF will be. 
  - [ ] ii to reply, saying that the release planning for 2020 will be discussed in Jan-Feb 2020.

- Next meetings (invitations already shared by JRC): 
  - January 21, 2020 at 10:00
  - February 18, 2020 at 10:00