# ETF Steering Group (ETF SG) - 16th meeting

## Logistics

Location: Webex

Date/Time: 08/10/2019, 10:00-11:30

## Attendance

- SG members:
  - JRC: Michael Lutz (main), Marco Minghini
  - ii: Clemens Portele (main), Jon Herrmann

- Observers:
  - Guadaltel: Carlos Palma, Enrique Soriano

## Minutes of previous meeting and open actions

- [Minutes by ii](https://github.com/etf-validator/governance/blob/master/Meetings/SG/20190903.md) accepted and merged.
- All open actions are on the agenda today.

## Cleanup issue on the JRC Validator instance

- A bugfix issue is already open [here](https://github.com/etf-validator/etf-webapp/issues/208).
- The clean-up problem is still under investigation at the JRC, no signficant advances have been made.
- [ ] Contractors to keep looking at the issue and try to reproduce it.

## Status of EIPs in draft (for updates)


- [#76](https://github.com/etf-validator/governance/issues/76): 
  - The suggestion is to update/change the existing test driver with the in-memory option of BaseX, while nothing should be changed in the data storage.
  - Since this has a high priority for the JRC, the Geoportal team will have a separate meeting with the Contractors.
  - [ ] Contractors to keep looking at the changes to be made to the test driver.

- [#77](https://github.com/etf-validator/governance/issues/77): 
  - ii found another way to address the problem, which is now less urgent and postponed.
  - We keep the issue open for the next meetings.

## Governance of the webapp

- JRC is progressing with the mockups of the new (simplified) interface having the look & feel of the European Commission, that should be ready in some months.
- ii has also deployed a customized version of the ETF with specific functionality (e.g. test run templates), which is shown in a demo.

## API Clients

- Following the discussion of the previous meeting, ii confirms that an API client in Java will be developed later this year (to be clarified how this will be released).
- Participants in the INSPIRE Validator workshop considered the (massive) use of the API as a crucial step to allow automation of their test; the language of API clients was not discussed.
- [x] JRC to ask workshop participants feedback about the preferred language of an API client.

## Status of PRs for bug fixes

- [189](https://github.com/etf-validator/etf-webapp/pull/189):
  - [ ] Contractors to add automatic tests using Nightwatch, then inform the TC.
  
- [203](https://github.com/etf-validator/etf-webapp/pull/203): 
  - [ ] Contractors to add comments to the Codacy issues why these should be acceptable (e.g. through in-line comments so that a notification is sent to the TC), then the TC will review the PR.
  
- [206](https://github.com/etf-validator/etf-webapp/pull/206):
  - [ ] Contractors to provide a bugfix for [the issue](https://github.com/etf-validator/etf-webapp/issues/209) in a new PR.
  
## Plan for automated tests for the next releases of ETS/ETF

- It was agreed to use NightWatch for UI tests, but this is becoming less relevant with the changes in the governance of the webapp.
- Instead, there is a real need for automated API-based tests using reference data.
- JRC might develop some user stories with different test scenarios and test data:
  - First, a test plan is needed to specify exactly what is needed (test to the UI and the API).
  - A call can be launched, inviting  Member States to submit test data and test reports (this is easy for metadata and data sets, but challenging for services since it might imply to setup and maintain a service).
- It is agreed to keep this topic in the agenda for next meetings.

## AOB

- The INSPIRE Validator workshop at the JRC (October 1-2, 2019) was successful:
  - About 20 people attending on each day (day 1 was for users, day 2 for developers) with good interactions.
  - Among the ETF-related improvements most rated by participants, there were the availability of a Docker image of the INSPIRE Validator and the effective usage of the API for massive tests.
  - Workshop materials were published by JRC and are available [here](https://github.com/inspire-eu-validation/community/tree/master/training%20material).
- Marco will contribute to [this webinar](https://nextgeoss.eu/nextgeoss-webinar-series-standards-compliance-2019) organized by [NextGEOSS](https://nextgeoss.eu/) on October 18 with a talk on the INSPIRE Validator. Using the Validator to test EO data (e.g. data from Annex II/III) is where Groovy becomes important.
  - [ ] Marco to share any relevant feedback from the webinar in the next meeting.
- Next meeting: November 12 at 10:00, Webex invitation already shared.