# ETF Steering Group (ETF SG) - 22nd meeting

## Logistics

Location: Webex

Date/Time: 07/05/2020, 10:00-11:30

## Attendance

- SG members:
  - JRC: Michael Lutz (main), Marco Minghini
  - ii: Clemens Portele (main), Jon Herrmann

- Observers:
  - Guadaltel: Carlos Palma

## Minutes of previous meeting and open actions

- [Minutes by ii](https://github.com/etf-validator/governance/blob/master/Meetings/SG/20200401.md) accepted and merged.
- All open actions are on the agenda, except those on EIPs [#76](https://github.com/etf-validator/governance/issues/76) where there are no news. These should be re-discussed at the next meeting in case there are news.

## Cleanup issue on the JRC Validator instance

- To try to reproduce the BaseX exception occurred in the INSPIRE instance described in [issue #208](https://github.com/etf-validator/etf-webapp/issues/208#issuecomment-619811910), some ideas might be to:
  - check the XML files written to the storage when the error occurred, to see whether some of the files were corrupt and not detected correctly;
  - see whether the same exception will occur with the new version of BaseX (9.3.2);

  - [ ] Contractors to keep the SG informed in case of new findings.


## EIPs for SG discussion

- [EIP #59](https://github.com/etf-validator/governance/issues/59)

  - ii developed this library for testing topological errors in geospatial data and would like to move it under the ETF organisation. It is an XQuery module called from an ETS, license is EUPL.

  - Recently there has been an issue in the INSPIRE Validator, which crashed multiple times as soon as an invalid GML dataset was uploaded for validation:
    - the issue is further described [here](https://github.com/inspire-eu-validation/community/issues/301) and Contractors show a demo of this dataset loaded into QGIS (loading continues forever);
    - it would be useful to validate this dataset with the new GmlGeoX module (see discussion on EIP #57 below).

  - Given that invalid geometries may trigger such behaviours in the Validator, it can be useful to have a preparation step when such checks can be included. This is another case where having a preparation step (as described in EIP #49 for schema validation) would be useful, hence it is agreed to create a new, more general EIP.

  - [ ] ii to open a new EIP for the new functionality of a preparation step
  - [ ] Contractors/JRC to provide feedback


- [EIP #49](https://github.com/etf-validator/governance/issues/49)

  - ii updated the EIP. This improvement allows to both: pre-check the schema before the actual validation to exclude XML data that is not schema valid; and improve schema validation performance by parallelizing threads in case of multiple XML documents, and caching schemas (including dependencies) locally.

  - Pre-validation of schemas can be seen as optional, e.g. in INSPIRE there is already a dedicated test on schema validation and this could be maintained by not providing the 'schema' parameter.

  - This change is already developed and can be included in the next release. It is decided to flag the EIP as 'EIP-accepted' and move it to 'TC: in release planning'.


- [EIP #57](https://github.com/etf-validator/governance/issues/57)

  - The geometry validation module GmlGeoX has been rewritten to improve the validation performance and add new capabilities. Given that the module is not compatible with the existing ETS (e.g. those from INSPIRE), the idea is to also keep the current version available. The module is not using the new deegree version, but in principle this might be integrated at a later step.

  - Contractors are testing the integration of the new deegree version with the current version of GmlGeoX:
    - all unit tests pass, but Contractors are not fully sure that the behaviour is consistent;
    - a solution can be to use the new ETF Result Checker module to check that the change is properly handled; if it is, then it will be included in the next release.

  - [ ] Contractors to make the check and provide feedback


- [EIP #77](https://github.com/etf-validator/governance/issues/77)

  - ii shows a demo of a test on a WFS service: for a user the test looks similar to the past, but it is now executed using the new test driver.

  - The prototype has been completed and discussions with the customer are undergoing on how this can be made part of the ETF. Feedback on the prototype highlighted that it is a good idea to have a DSL but that it is important to have other tools to obtain it, e.g. using Groovy.

  - [ ] ii to provide updates in the next meeting


## ETF release plan & process (including automated tests)

- [EIP #92](https://github.com/etf-validator/governance/issues/92)

  - Contractors tested the ETF Result Checker and provided positive feedback.

  - This tool is not really part of the ETF but could help in testing, so it is important to point users to it (e.g. in the next release). It is agreed to:
    - version the tool separately and release the first version as 1.0.0;
    - add reference to the tool in the ETF documentation on how to develop ETS, so that ETS can be tested before a new release;
    - flag the EIP as 'EIP-accepted' and move it to 'TC: scheduled for release'.

  - [ ] ii to move the repository under the ETF organisation.

- Next ETF release

  - All the EIPs and the PRs to be included (see below) are defined.

  - In terms of timeline, June can be used for testing and the new release is planned for July.

  - In the next SG meeting we should discuss a date when to have a Release Candidate available (with all PRs and EIPs included), hopefully at some point in June, which is then used as a base for testing.


## Governance of the webapp

- JRC updates about the plan to show a first demo of the new INSPIRE-based UI during the workshop on the INSPIRE Reference Validator planned on June 9 during the [2020 online INSPIRE Conference](https://inspire.ec.europa.eu/conference2020).


## Status of open PRs for bug fixes

- [ ] Contractors to check [PR #189](https://github.com/etf-validator/etf-webapp/pull/189).
- [ ] Contractors to provide a bugfix for [issue #209](https://github.com/etf-validator/etf-webapp/issues/209).
- [ ] Contractors to provide a bugfix for [issue #215](https://github.com/etf-validator/etf-webapp/issues/215) so that logging the username is configurable.


## AOB

- [ ] JRC to discuss how external people can interact with the ETF SG, given that the mailing list is currently not open to external posts (e.g. from Contractors).

- Next meeting: June 16, 2020 at 10:00
  - [x] JRC to send an invitation