# ETF Steering Group (ETF SG) - 25th meeting

## Logistics

Location: Webex

Date/Time: 10/09/2020, 09:00-10:15

## Attendance

- SG members:
  - JRC: Michael Lutz (main), Marco Minghini
  - ii: Clemens Portele (main), Jon Herrmann
- Observers:
  - Guadaltel: Carlos Palma

## Minutes of previous meeting and open actions

- [Minutes by JRC](https://github.com/etf-validator/governance/blob/master/Meetings/SG/20200806.md) accepted with the changes from the review.
  - [X] Marco will update the pull request and then it can be merged.
- All open actions are on the agenda, except those on the following issue, which will be discussed in a future meeting
  - [EIP #76](https://github.com/etf-validator/governance/issues/76)
  - [issue #208](https://github.com/etf-validator/etf-webapp/issues/208)

## EIPs for SG discussion

- [EIP 96](https://github.com/etf-validator/governance/issues/96)
  - There should be two EIPs, one for GmlGeoX v1 and one for v2.
  - [ ] The contractors will submit a pull request for v1 with unit tests.
  - No plans for INSPIRE to move to v2, so the release can include the change for v1 only.
  - An EIP for v2 is needed, too, but has more time.

- [EIP 77](https://github.com/etf-validator/governance/issues/77)
  - No updates

## Status of open PRs and bug fixes for the release candidate

- All PRs have been accepted and merged, with the exception of [PR #217](https://github.com/etf-validator/etf-webapp/pull/217) to fix the bug on the Rerun button. The current fix does not work for persistent test objects.
  - The PR makes changes to the UI, but the change would require that the rerun capability is built-in into the backend, which would require more significant changes.
  - A potential (easy) solution could be to pass the information whether the test object was a persistent or transient one to the UI, so that the Rerun button works ok for the relevant use cases.
  - For now close the PR. The re-run function is managed directly in the new INSPIRE UI.

## ETF release plan & process

- Contractors have executed tests with the etf-result-checker tool and the INSPIRE conformance classes. Issues:
  - No support for service tests, because assertion names are used multiple times (e.g., "30 seconds timeout"), which creates issues with the keys in the `expected.json` file. This is available in the Guadatel fork of the etf-result-checker. An update is required to the etf-result-checker to support soapUI tests, too.
    - [X] ii to add a comment about the issue with SoapUI tests in [EIP 92](https://github.com/etf-validator/governance/issues/92)
    - Contractors will perform manual tests for services.
    - Ask expert group for a number of services.
    - Marco/Carlos/Jon will coordinate how the release candidate deployment is used.
    - Release current etf-result-checker.
    - Discuss an etf-result-checker extension for services in a new EIP. At least for SoapUI ETSs this is doubtful given the status of SoapUI.
      - [X] ii to open the draft EIP ([EIP 99](https://github.com/etf-validator/governance/issues/99)).
  - The report does not have sufficient to identify the cause of errors/differences. A proper resolution depends on a [gradle issue](https://github.com/gradle/gradle/issues/5975). A workaround is to log the directory in the standard error output for now. If this is not addressed by gradle we could consider to include it in a future version of the etf-result-checker.

- There is one remaining issues to be fixed before the ETF release can happen:
  - Integration of new deegree version in GmlGeoX (see above)

- A schedule is agreed as follows:
  - 2020-09-18: PR for [EIP 96](https://github.com/etf-validator/governance/issues/96)
  - 2020-09-22: review of the PR (only formal checks will be done), update the release candidate
  - 2020-09-25: testing by JRC and contractors complete
  - 2020-10-02: release complete
  - if a new issue comes up we need to coordinate

## Governance of the webapp

- JRC is planning to release a working prototype with the new UI by end of September in parallel to the existing validator.

## AOB

- Next meeting: September 24, 2020 at 10:00 to check the testing status and discuss the release
  - JRC to send an invitation [no longer necessary: the meeting has been postponed].
