# ETF Steering Group (ETF SG) - 30th meeting

## Logistics

Location: Webex

Date/Time: 12/08/2021, 10:00-11:00 am CEST

## Attendance

- SG members:
  - JRC: Marco Minghini
  - ii: Clemens Portele (main), Jon Herrmann
- Observers:
  - Guadaltel: Carlos Palma

## Minutes of previous meeting and open actions

- [Minutes by ii](https://github.com/etf-validator/governance/blob/master/Meetings/SG/20210223.md) accepted and merged.

- The meeting is focused on the upcoming ETF release; after the release, we will look at the backlog. Hence, discussion on the following issues and EIPs is postponed again to the first meeting after the ETF release:
  - [EIP #76](https://github.com/etf-validator/governance/issues/76)
  - [issue #208](https://github.com/etf-validator/etf-webapp/issues/208)
  - [EIP #100](https://github.com/etf-validator/governance/issues/100)
  - [EIP #77](https://github.com/etf-validator/governance/issues/77)
  - [EIP #99](https://github.com/etf-validator/governance/issues/99)
  - any additional draft EIPs

## ETF release plan & process

- JRC tested the release candidate. Everything works fine, apart from:
  - the error on the DOCTYPE presence when validationg WMS 1.1.1 services, which is expected and (as agreed) will be managed at the ETS level; JRC made an investigation and discovered that 1/3 of the total number of all INSPIRE view services use WMS 1.1.1, most of which are from DE (already notified about the issue);
  - stack trace error: the change applied by ii was only applied to the stack trace error in API responses from the ETF, but not from its sub-modules. This might not be ok based on the security recommendations from the JRC office. Fully removing the stack trace might also have a negative effect, given the consequent lack of context about errors. Agreed actions:
  - [X] JRC to re-discuss the viable options with the security office
  - [X] Jon and Carlos to look at the Java security manager as a possible way to remove all stack traces

- The JRC would benefit from the source code of the ETF in order to deploy it locally with the INSPIRE-specific environment (UI, caching system, etc.).
  - [X] ii to share the source code with the JRC.

- Schedule for release:
  - [X] all to find an agreed solution on the stack trace management
  - [ ] ii to proceed with the release and publish the source code on the ETF repository
  - [ ] JRC to test the release in the local environment; possible bugs will be included in a bugfix release

## AOB

- Next meeting:
  - September 1 at 10:00 am CEST.
  - [X] Marco to send an invitation.