# ETF Steering Group (ETF SG) - 31st meeting

## Logistics

Location: Webex

Date/Time: 01/09/2021, 11:30-12:30 CEST

## Attendance

- SG members:
  - JRC: Marco Minghini
  - ii: Clemens Portele (main), Jon Herrmann
- Observers:
  - Guadaltel: Carlos Palma

## Minutes of previous meeting and open actions

- [Minutes by JRC](https://github.com/etf-validator/governance/blob/master/Meetings/SG/20210812.md) accepted and merged.

- The meeting is focused on the upcoming ETF release; after the release, we will look at the backlog. Hence, discussion on the following issues and EIPs is postponed again to the first meeting after the ETF release:
  - [EIP #76](https://github.com/etf-validator/governance/issues/76)
  - [issue #208](https://github.com/etf-validator/etf-webapp/issues/208)
  - [EIP #100](https://github.com/etf-validator/governance/issues/100)
  - [EIP #77](https://github.com/etf-validator/governance/issues/77)
  - [EIP #99](https://github.com/etf-validator/governance/issues/99)
  - any additional draft EIPs

## ETF release plan & process

- Stacktraces:
  - Stacktraces are now suppressed by default in the REST API. The configuration option ETF_STACKTRACE_SHOW=true can be used in testing / development environments

- TEAM Engine issue:
  - The TEAM Engine has a breaking change (see https://github.com/opengeospatial/teamengine/issues/469). Guadatel has implemented changes in a local deployment.
  - Two issues with the changes:
    - Some dependencies in the TEAM Engine test driver have changed and the code need to be updated.
    - There is a TEAM Engine Pull Request that is still open and not deployed in the TEAM Engine. We should wait for the clarification.
  - There is also an open issue with respect to the 'Accept' header.
  - We do not have to wait with the release, but can issue a bug fix after the questions have been clarified.

- Tests with pre-built WAR:
  - interactive instruments has create a release candidate.
  - Guadatel has not been successful with building a docker image with a WAR built by the CI pipeline at interactive instruments from the release candidate.
  - Java 11 has removed some libraries that have to be pulled in explicitly and the behaviour may depend on the application server that is used and the libraries that are included. ii is using `jetty:9.4-jre11-slim`, Guadatel without "slim". Guadatel has also tested using the "slim" variant, but the behaviour did not change. Jon has shared the relevant dependencies, Carlos will look for a fix.
  - We will list the application servers with which the new release has been tested in the release notes.

- Resolve between Carlos and Jon. If that is not successful, we will schedule another meeting.

- Next regular SG meeting after release on the open and planned EIPs.

## AOB

- Next meeting:
  - Potentially in the week Oct 11, e.g. Tuesday or Thursday morning
  - [ ] Marco to send an invitation.
