# ETF Steering Group (ETF SG) - 37th meeting

## Logistics

Location: Webex

Date/Time: 21/09/2022, 10:30-11:30 CEST

## Attendance

- SG members:
  - JRC: Marco Minghini (main), Pierpaolo Cira
  - ii: Clemens Portele (main), Jon Herrmann
- Observers:
  - Guadaltel: Enrique Soriano, José Barrero

## Minutes of previous meeting and open actions

- [Minutes by JRC](https://github.com/etf-validator/governance/blob/master/Meetings/SG/20220805.md) were accepted and merged.

Open actions are discussed in the agenda.

## Release follow-up actions

The release 2.1.0 happened on August 19 before FOSS4G.

- Documentation
  - Email from Marco from 1st September with proposal to improve navigability from GitHub.
  - Add links to the Readme
  - [ ] Marco will update the page.
- Docker image
  - There is a link to Dockerhub that does not resolve and needs to be fixed.
  - General question whether we want to publish also an updated docker image. This requires significant effort to maintain (e.g., security and library updates with respect to docker itself). Users will expect that the image is up-to-date and has no security issues.
  - Guadatel has an image that could be reduced to just contain ETF.
  - [ ] JRC will discuss, if they can maintain a ETF docker image in the future.
  - There is also OSGeo Live.
- Plan for future releases
  - Should we have a (rough) plan for future ETF releases
  - Bugfix releases for security issues?
  - What is "enough" for a new release?
  - There should be a release at least every year and in addition for important new capabilities. We will use this as general guidance, but will not publish a release plan.
  - [ ] Update the GitHub Readme document with the policy.
- Future of the ETF UI
  - ETF is the functionality, the UI is a sample UI. How to maintain this in the future?
  - One approach would be a sunset process where no new features will be added in the future. As a result, at some point the UI will no longer work with ETF. How will OSGeo Live users or Docker users use ETF?
  - Conclusion: For OSGeo Live or a docker image, a UI would be needed.
  - To support OSGeo Live and/or a public ETF docker image, we need to find a way to maintain, but also to modernize the technology. 
  - [ ] Look for an approach that balances cost and effort.
- Questions:
  - 2.1 release is on the `next` branch. 
    - [x] Jon will create the `main` branch from the `next` branch with the changes.
  - [x] Create a branch for `1.0.2` for the backport of the OGC TEAM Engine change.

## EIPs for SG discussion

No news to discuss. Open actions:

- [ ] Contractors to create a pull request for HTTP/HTTPS redirection
- [x] Contractors to create a pull request for the change in the OGC TEAM Engine

## Authentication change in the TEAM Engine for ETF v.2.0

A deployment for the future TEAM Engine version with credetials has been developed and tested. In the current TEAM Engine version any crendetials are simply ignored. I.e., the same code should work with the current and the future version of the TEAM Engine.

## AOB

- OSGeoLive 
  - [ ] Update ETF with the TEAM Engine credentials change.
  - OSGeo Live waits for an update, the OSGeo Live team will then test the scripts.
  - There will be a release candidate for testing in the next weeks before the final release.
- OSGeo Community Project
  - [x] Waiting for response from the Incubation team, Marco may contact the board.
- FOSS4G talk
  - The talk was well prepared and done. 
  - Jon had discussions with several FOSS4G attendees, most were not aware of ETF or not using ETF.
  - The products using ETF, like the INSPIRE validator, are more known than ETF itself.
- Next Meeting: October 18, 10:00-11:30
  - [x] Marco to send an invite.
