# ETF Steering Group (ETF SG) - 38th meeting

## Logistics

Location: Webex

Date/Time: 18/10/2022, 10:30-11:30 CEST

## Attendance

- SG members:
  - JRC: Marco Minghini (main), Pierpaolo Cira
  - ii: Clemens Portele (main), Jon Herrmann
- Observers:
  - Guadaltel: Enrique Soriano, José Barrero

## Minutes of previous meeting and open actions

- [Minutes by ii](https://github.com/etf-validator/governance/blob/master/Meetings/SG/20220921.md) were accepted and merged.
- All open actions are discussed in the agenda, except:
  - [ ] Clemens to update the GitHub Governance Readme document with general guidance on future releases.

## Definition of responsibility for ETF components

- ETF components which are only of interest to one partner (ii or JRC) are primarily maintained by this partner:
  - for JRC: SoapUI, tetd and BaseX (legacy version) test drivers
  - permissions to perform pull requests and release new versions of the test drivers are needed. For merging, some CI pipelines are currently in place but they are misconfigured; however, we do not use these anymore since we have GitHub Actions in place.

  - [x] Jon to assign the permissions on the relevant repos to Enrique and Jose.
  - [ ] Enrique to fix the GitHub pipeline (asking help to Jon if needed)

- It is ok to proceed with releases of legacy versions of test drivers. Releases of new versions of test drivers should be first discussed and agreed by the SG.
- When a legacy version of a test driver is no longer used, we can archive/take it out. An exception can be that an organisation approaches us asking to keep it alive; in this case, we invite the organisation to join the ETF community and contribute (by maintaining the test driver, sponsoring, etc.).


## Release follow-up actions
	
### Docker image

- Several proposals are put forward on either publishing or not publishing the docker image:
  - do not publish the docker image since we cannot maintain it against security issues (although in principle a security fix should lead to a new release);
  - publish the docker image, but add a disclaimer with the date of last update;
  - publish the docker image, but call it 'docker for dev' to clarify that it should only be used locally and not exposed (so that security risks are of lower concern);
  - a good compromise might be that there is an automated build (done by GitHub Actions) but this is not tested;
  - we could also decide that we do not publish the docker image for the time being, and we wait until we know more on the use of the ETF by the community.

### UI

- We agreed that the UI is not part of the ETF, but still it could be useful to docker and OSGeoLive users:
  - ideally we could maintain a base UI (while ii works in parallel on a new UI with new functionality), but at a certain point there will be breaking changes making the old UI not usable anymore;
  - this is not just a matter of translations, but of lack of flexibility of the UI. Also, the current base UI uses old technology (jQuery) that should be modernised.
- It is agreed that ii creates a plan to understand the (future) effort needed to maintain a base UI, so that JRC can evaluate and see whether to take responsibility and how to contribute to this effort. After this, we can rediscuss the topic in the next meeting.
  - [ ] ii to share a plan on the work/effort to maintain a base UI.

## Issues with INSPIRE Reference Validator based on ETF 2.1

- JRC is working to integrate ETF 2.1 in the INSPIRE Reference Validator:
  - tests on geometry orientation are based on the BaseX test driver + GmlGeoX v.1. There is uncertainty on how different BaseX versions work together, but the two versions should be independent so removing BaseX v.3 should not cause issues;
  - for tests on WMS 1.1.1, the exception that is raised should be addressed at the ETS level.
  
## Development environment for ETF

- JRC decided to dedicate some time to setup a development environment in view of the PR for [EIP #116](https://github.com/etf-validator/governance/issues/116)
  - different technologies were tried, but all failed when debugging the jar file;
  - Jon suggests to use IntelliJ IDEA, which works better than other technologies.
  - [ ] JRC Contractors to progress on setting up the development environment (also useful for the issues with ETF 2.1 described above)
- It is suggested that once we have a development environment, we can share it with the community.

### Promotion of the ETF

- A number of tasks are foreseen in the JRC contract for promoting the ETF:
  - **survey** of ETF usage, user satisfaction, etc., possibly coupled with interviews
  - promotional **video**
- ii confirms interest in being informed on draft versions of the survey and video, providing recommendations and helping in communication with their partners (e.g. finding representatives of the German community to interview).

### AOB

- **Updates on ETF & OSGeo**:
  - **OSGeoLive**: the ETF .war file was updated with the TEAM Engine credentials. OSGeoLive RC2 was delivered, but there was still a small issue with the ETF to be corrected;
  - **OSGeo Community Project**: no news, the OSGeo Board will push the Incubation Committee to take a decision.
- **Next meeting**: 22/11 16:30-18:00, then postponed to 14/12 11:00-12:30
  - [x] Marco to send an invite.