# ETF Steering Group (ETF SG) - 33rd meeting

## Logistics

Location: Webex

Date/Time: 19/04/2022, 10:00-11:15 CEST

## Attendance

- SG members:
  - JRC: Marco Minghini
  - ii: Clemens Portele (main), Jon Herrmann
- Observers:
  - JRC: Pierpaolo Cira
  - Guadaltel: Enrique Soriano
- Excused:
  - JRC: Michael Lutz (main)

## Minutes of previous meeting and open actions

- [Minutes by JRC](https://github.com/etf-validator/governance/blob/master/Meetings/SG/20220307.md) accepted and merged.

## ETF 2.1 release preparation

See Jon's email from April 14 for the context.

Open issues with the ETF 2.1 RC deployment at JRC:

- The Xerces version explains the differences in the messages.
- The issue with the Test Driver is under investigation.
- [x] JRC and contractors to execute tests on an ETF 2.1 RC instance in the deployment context of the INSPIRE Reference Validator. This should, for example, resolve the issues with the redirects.
- [ ] Jon will review the results and provide feedback.

Next steps:

- [ ] ii to restructure repositories (EIP #70).
  - Eventually GitHub Actions should be used for the build, not the current build pipeline at ii.
  - This will take time (several days), so the target date for the changes depends on availability. Inform about planned date once there is a plan.
- New capabilities are documented in EIPs, but this needs a review and may need some updates to the EIPs.
- A list of bug/security fixes since the last release should be included in the change log. This may be difficult since the last release is a long time ago. Also the restructuring of the repositories may make it more difficult to identify the changes.
- The documentation at https://github.com/etf-validator/docs also needs to be updated. This could also be done by JRC and would by a good check that all the information is available. First update the administrator documentation, then the developer documentation.
- [ ] Discuss at the next meeting.

## Review of existing EIPs (in light of the release)

We may need to update or remove some of the current EIPs, because they are outdated.

- EIPs with status "TC: scheduled for release" should be part of ETF 2.1
  - [ ] Jon will check and close those with the release
- EIPs with status "TC: in release planning"
  - [ ] SG to update and review before next meeting, some will be part of the release, some can be closed
  - For example, #18 and others that are UI related can be closed. Some could be moved back to discussion (#13 ?)
  - [x] Update EIP #71 (Java 11) to "EIP-approved"
- EIPs with status "SG: discussion" or "draft/refine EIP"
  - [ ] SG to review and update, move EIPs into the relevant column of the project board
  - Issue #108 was added to the project board.

## Application for OSGeo Live and OSGeo Community Project

### OSGeo Community Project

- The application has been submitted.
- [ ] Marco will create the page on the OSGeo Wiki. The Code of Conduct link will reference the ETF governance repository.

### OSGeo Live

- Marco has distributed a draft proposal for submission of ETF to the OSGeo Live distribution. 
- The name should be "ETF".
- The current release version (2.0)	should be included.
- The distribution should include generic, non-INSPIRE-specific tests, reduced from the INSPIRE ETSs.
- The current list of organisations using the application in production is sufficient and includes the mapping authorities in Germany.
- [x] JRC will create an OpenHUB entry.
- Jose will be the contact for the submission.
- A custom install script should be used. No Windows or Mac installers.
- [x] Jose will update and submit the application, with individual SG members in CC.

## AOB

- FOSS4G
  - The abstract is still under review (the community voting period has closed). The European track has more proposals than slots. The presentation could also be in the Main track, not the European track.
  - The idea is that Jon would present in person, Marco would contribute slides.
- Next meeting
  - May 25, 1000-1130
  - [x] JRC to send an invitation
