# ETF Steering Group (ETF SG) - 32nd meeting

## Logistics

Location: Webex

Date/Time: 07/03/2022, 14:00-15:00 CEST

## Attendance

- SG members:
  - JRC: Michael Lutz (main), Marco Minghini
  - ii: Clemens Portele (main), Jon Herrmann

## Minutes of previous meeting and open actions

- [Minutes by ii](https://github.com/etf-validator/governance/blob/master/Meetings/SG/20210901.md) accepted and merged.

- The meeting is focused on discussing how to restart and restructure the activities of the ETF SG, especially in light of a new JRC contract. Hence, no discussions on the EIPs are scheduled.

## New JRC contract

- The JRC has recently started a new contract which, in addition to covering the maintenance and operation of several components in the INSPIRE infrastructure (incl. the INSPIRE Reference Validator), funds work (supported by the [Digital Europe Programme](https://digital-strategy.ec.europa.eu/en/activities/digital-programme)) to include the ETF testing framework in Common Services Platform, whose goal is to collect reusable and cross-sector services, software tools and standards used at the EU-level, ensure their maintenance and evolution, and build communities of stakeholders around them.

- at a high level, tasks include supporting the evolution and maintenance of the ETF, improving documentation, supporting the implementation of the EIPs, fostering the use of the ETF in communities beyond INSPIRE, creating/extending the communities of users and developers around the software. Specific tasks include:
  - providing support to some Member States public bodies and other organisations to deploy the ETF
  - developing new ATS and ETS (outside the INSPIRE domain)
  - submitting the ETF as an OSGeo Community Project, and proposing the ETF for inclusion in the OSGeoLive
  - providing training sessions on the ETF, and creating an e-learning course (together with the Re3gistry) and a promotional video
  - measuring/monitoring the number of downloaded and deployed instances of the ETF
  - assessing the level of satisfaction of the ETF community, understanding the user needs

## Impact of the new contract on the ETF governance and SG activities

- OSGeo-related tasks were planned with the idea to promote the software, raise awareness and create a community of users and developers that could ensure the future sustainability of the ETF:
  - [OSGeo Community Projects](https://wiki.osgeo.org/wiki/OSGeo_Community_Projects) are geospatial open source projects under the umbrella (not the control) of OSGeo, and they do not imply any change in the governance of the software tools; OSGeo Community Projects are not fully-fledged OSGeo projects (which would require a separate application);
  - [OSGeoLive](https://live.osgeo.org/en/index.html) is a distribution of several open source projects, provided by OSGeo, that users can use to test software tools without the need to install/configure them.
  
- The concrete benefits are difficult to estimate, however the SG agrees that this is a good step for the project and a potential opportunity for raising awareness and attract new users and contributors.

- For the OSGeoLive, we should decide what to include in the ETF: an idea is to have a minimal version of the ETF with few basic tests.
 
- [ ] JRC Contractors to prepare the request for OSGeo Live and the plan on what to include. 

## ETF release and next steps

- To solve issues with the deployment of the ETF RC 2.1, the JRC proposes to involve an internal developer with experience in cloud/containers.

- The JRC also proposes to work towards the inclusion of a JRC representative (from the Contractor's team) as a member of the ETF TC. This person should become an expert of the ETF at the level to join the TC and contribute to the code, taking the chance of the new contract.

- After the release, we will come back to the EIPs.

## AOB

- The SG agrees to submit an abstract on the ETF to the [FOSS4G 2022](https://2022.foss4g.org/) conference, happening in Florence on August 22-28, 2022. Deadline for abstract submissions is 14 March. 

- Next meeting: 19 April at 10:00
  - [x] JRC to send an invitation.