# ETF Steering Group (ETF SG) - 40th meeting

## Logistics

Location: Webex

Date/Time: 13/11/2022, 11:00-11:45 CEST

## Attendance

- SG members:
  - JRC: Marco Minghini (main), Pierpaolo Cira
  - ii: Clemens Portele (main), Jon Herrmann

## Minutes of previous meeting and open actions

- [Minutes by ii](https://github.com/etf-validator/governance/blob/master/Meetings/SG/20221214.md) were accepted and merged.

## Future of ETF governance

- JRC and ii provide their perspective and interest about the future of ETF:
  - ii is interested to modernise the ETF components and adapt the software to the most modern technological developments;
  - JRC is also interested to adapt the software to enable validation of [INSPIRE Good Practices](https://inspire.ec.europa.eu/portfolio/good-practice-library), however the main priority is to maintain the INSPIRE Reference Validator (currently based on ETF v.2.0) operational and to continue supporting all INSPIRE tests.
- Since both parties are interested in the ETF (though with different needs), there is still scope to maintain the SG with the same members.

## Decisions and next steps

- Each partner will be responsible for maintaining specific ETF repositories and/or branches of ETF repositories.
- [ ] JRC and ii to define the full list of repositories and branches under the responsibility of each partner.
- The ToR will be updated to reflect this share of responsibilities.
- [ ] ii to update the ToR.
- Should the need arise for any of the two partners to revise the ETF governance and/or to increase the frequency of meetings, this will be re-discussed.
- The SG will continue to meet every 4 months (i.e. 3 times a year), mainly with the purpose of exchanging updates and news on the respective use of the ETF. The next meeting will take place on 11 March at 11:00.
- [x] JRC to send the invite for the next meeting.