# ETF Steering Group (ETF SG) - 43st meeting

## Logistics

Location: Webex

Date/Time: 18/11/2024, 11:00-11:25 CET

## Attendance

- SG members:
  - JRC: Marco Minghini
  - ii: Clemens Portele, Jon Herrmann

## Minutes of previous meeting and open actions

- [Minutes by JRC](https://github.com/etf-validator/governance/blob/master/Meetings/SG/20240708.md) were accepted and merged.
- There is one open task from the previous meetings:
  - [ ] ii to update the ToR.

## Updates from ii

- The development of the new DSL is ongoing. The plan is still to complete the work around the end of the year and then move the tests into production.
- A new test suite is currently developed for a metadata profile of the German mapping agencies. The tests also use the new DSL.
- The result will be a new test driver. It will require a new ETF version (2.2 or 3.0, to be determined).
- [ ] ii to demo the new test driver in the next meeting.

## Updates from JRC

- Validator
  - Version 2024.3 has been released in September. It is used for monitoring, no breaking changes. It includes tests for the data-service linking simplification as well as some UI updates.
- ETF
  - The new version of OSGeo Live (publication around FOSS4G) will also include ETF. 
- INSPIRE
  - The Green Data for All initiative is ongoing including work on the impact assessment. The current status will be presented to the MIG next week. The updated legal framework will not be available before the end of 2025.
  - The current infrastructure (geoportal, validator, registry) will be maintained until the future directions of INSPIRE are clear without significant new developments. A new work programme for this transition phase is prepared.
- SG
  - As discussed in the previous meeting, Pierpaolo has left the ETF SG due to internal JRC re-organisation. There will not be a replacement until the future directions for INSPIRE and the validator are clearer.

## Next meeting

The next meeting will be on 17 March 2025 at 11:00. JRC has sent the invite for the next meeting.